TODOS FOR THIS WEEK
Stratify probability of each top-1 pick. Record accuracy just when confidence is > 95% for ex.
Intra-genus/species accuracy
Find an unsupervised way of generating some embeddings in the descriptor space. I want to turn a knob and watch a fish's fin size vary.
    See techniques like Non-negative Matrix Factorization (NMF), t-SNE (t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding) and UMAP (Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection). PCA and LDA do not work!
Write setup.bat and setup.sh scripts.
GitHub cleanup stuff. Does this belong with all the Drexel metadata stuff?

NOTES ON THESIS PAPER
Why outlines (specimen features) are important, in the context of fish
Phenotypical traits (vs. genotypical)
Exploring variation among species (an artificial label) and when something deserves to be called a new species
Measuring an outline manually as a domain expert is not feasible. Computational approaches unlock a new realm of possibilities
and progression of outline extraction techniques
The outline is one of many features
Example scientific questions that we could answer with these
The why: trait extraction is a major problem in itself for BGNN, and we need outlines along with many other traits.
Fourier analysis provides DISCRIMINATING features
Need to round up whole data curation process somewhere. Your spring week 2 report sort of does it but the details of what got dropped for detectron reasons might be wrong; look back farther in your presentations. And we now also dropped Lepomis Hybrids and loners

STILL-RELEVANT NOTES ON BGNN PRESENTATION
Include the coverage of my dataset and how I arrived at those particular fish. How many species, genuses, etc.? See Spring Week 2 report for info.
Include lots of visuals
Slide ideas: motivations (on Yasin's wishlist), scientific/biological questions regarding comparison of species, shapes, changes over time, geography, phenotypical analysis. Also CS-related interest

GENERAL AREAS TO LOOK INTO IF TIME PERMITS
Projections from centroids
Dynamic time warp analysis of outlines. Outlines, like signals, will align, fall apart from each other, and then align again. There's a package called python-dtw for it.
"Antennae" of catfish create weird components of outline that don't fit the fish well; see 42539 for example.
Improve outlining by looking at the gradient of the saturation histogram. Maybe the location of the largest difference is the best threshold? Also take into account distance from the bottom mean.
Using other shape descriptors to add to each outline's feature vector (see https://docs.opencv.org/3.4/d3/dc0/group__imgproc__shape.html)
Pull in image quality metrics generated by Leipzig et. al. to determine whether we should use an image
Reach out to the Ecological and Evolutionary Signal-processing and Informatics Laboratory in the ECE dept.
All data augmentation is currently based on random combos of existing fish. But we could also do random perturbations.
Do another outlining hyperparameter search. Figuring out how to do this in a reasonable amount of time is the hard part.
Phylogeny refers to intra variation over time. If we extract dates from these labels, we can explore it.
Create a way of measuring at-least-correct-genus accuracy for classifiers. Note that this is different from just classifying by genus alone.
Fish shape morph GIFs
Fix self-intersecting outlines. If (non-successive) duplicate points still exist in an outline then prune all the points between the duplicates. See Fish 8266 for an example.
Allow outline overrides as a function of the fish's properties, either at the id level, or genus/species level. For example, fish 64281 could use a dark std dev multiplier of 1.0 or higher.
Devise an at-least-correct-genus accuracy metric and see how it compares to accuracy when trained on genus alone.
Try other target feature space dimensionalities when doing LDA.

METHODS/DETAILS WE ARE DECIDEDLY NOT INTERESTED IN
Zahn-Roskies shape functions
Eigenshapes
Outlining using edge detection. We just can't seem to get a closed contour using Canny and the like.
Adapting this pipeline to other image repositories; I just don't have the time, but someone else might.
Restricted Boltzmann Machines as a classifier, as well as any model that can't offer a confidence with its choice
Visualizing standard deviation of shapes in terms of EFDs (rather than point XYs) - the results are just meaningless.

GENERAL INTERESTING THINGS TO REMEMBER
The curse of dimensionality - as dimensions increase, everything becomes equidistant! Especially when the number of samples is less than the number of features.
Ground truth errors? automated methods to detect them
Voronoi diagrams
Wavelet fourier descriptors? Just something I've read
Landmarks? What defines one?
Discontinuities in curvature, e.g. the tip of a shark's back fin, could help us compute the potentially feature of distance between extremal points / landmarks
Remember to properly cite all libraries used, like PyEFD and Sklearn and Python-DTW
A nearest centroid classifier actually did a lot better (75% acc) than a KNN (50% acc) out of the box.
When you normalize EFDs, the first three coefficients will always be 1, 0, 0. So you can remove them from a feature matrix.
Most high-harmonic fish do genuinely need that many to reconstruct within tolerance. But several are actually screwed up.
There are the feature efds and the working efds. In order to maximize distinguishability, we may have to make irreversible transformations/normalizations to the efds that don't allow us to reconstruct their outlines.
Automated landmarking is somewhere on Yasin's wishlist. We apparently already have 2000 landmarks placed manually on 100 species, we'd just need to ask Tulane to see it.
Data standardization just doesn't seem to do anything so long as I'm using LDA. (And it's proper to apply standardization before LDA)
You can do model persistence with joblib (same api as pickle, just need to pip install it)
Besides our current error metric, cosine similarity is another means of quantifying outline similarity
Everything runs way faster on the lab server! Just do all the work there that you can, especially ML stuff.

OLD BRAINSTORM ARTIFACTS FROM OUTLINE EXTRACTION DISCUSSIONS

Alternatively, a level set evolution with a velocity proportional to distances?
As a boundary pixel, look at your non-boundary, non-interior neighbors. "exterior", background pixel
If this distance is below a certain threshold, then the exterior pixel becomes the new boundary
A more iterative process based on an initial guess
Oh, and we'd also want to look at interior neighbors because you could be over-segmenting

To compute curvature on a chain code, hit it with a gaussian filter to blur it, turn it into grayscale, and then compute iso line curvatures on that grayscale image using preexisting formulas
What's the right spatial resolution where there's distinguishing qualities of the fish's curvature?

1. extracting outline
2. computing curvature -> initial "signal" that we could use
https://arxiv.org/pdf/1407.7340.pdf
https://math.mit.edu/classes/18.086/2007/levelsetnotes.pdf

key phrase: level set method / level set curvature
equation 4 in his given paper to compute curvatures of gaussian-blurred version of jagged binary image

We have the segmentation boundary so at any point we know in what general direction "out" is

Notion of uniform tension of a string wrapped around the fish
Breen looked into something like it a long time ago (see paper) but probably over-complex
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/146367
